.TH GSC_AIRGAP 1 "2026-03-07" "Process Health v1.2.71" "HCP Cloud Scale Health Check"
.SH NAME
gsc_airgap.sh \- load and start Prometheus + Grafana on an air-gapped system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sudo gsc_airgap.sh
.B \-\-save\-images
.I OUTDIR
.RB [ options ]
.PP
.B sudo gsc_airgap.sh
.B \-\-load\-images
.I BUNDLEDIR
.RB [ options ]
.PP
.B sudo gsc_airgap.sh
.B \-\-start
.B \-c
.I CUSTOMER
.B \-s
.I SR
.B \-f
.I PSNAP
.B \-b
.I BASEDIR
.RB [ options ]
.PP
.B sudo gsc_airgap.sh
.B \-\-stop
.RB [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gsc_airgap.sh
manages the full lifecycle of Prometheus and Grafana containers on systems
that have no outbound internet access (air-gapped environments).
.PP
On a network-connected host use
.B \-\-save\-images
to pull both container images and export them to a portable tar bundle
directory.  Transfer that directory to the air-gapped host (USB, SCP, etc.)
and use
.B \-\-load\-images
to import the images into the local container engine.
Once loaded, use
.B \-\-start
to extract a Prometheus snapshot (psnap), start Prometheus, and start
Grafana pre-provisioned with the Prometheus datasource.
.B \-\-stop
stops and removes both containers.
.PP
All volume mounts include the
.B :z
SELinux shared-relabel flag so the containers can read their data
directories on SELinux-enforcing systems (RHEL, AlmaLinux, Fedora).
The flag is a no-op on non-SELinux hosts.
.PP
Port selection for Prometheus is automatic: a random free TCP port is
chosen from the range
.B 9090\(en9599
(configurable with
.B \-\-min\-port
and
.BR \-\-max\-port ),
skipping reserved exporter ports (9093, 9100, 8080, 9115, 9116, 9104)
and any ports already mapped by running containers.
.PP
If a
.I healthcheck.conf
file exists in the same directory as the snapshot file,
.B _prom_port
is automatically updated to the selected port after Prometheus starts.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B \-\-save\-images \fIOUTDIR\fR
Pull
.I prom/prometheus
and
.I grafana/grafana
images on the current (connected) host and write them to
.I prometheus_<tag>.tar
and
.IR grafana_<tag>.tar
in
.IR OUTDIR .
Also writes
.I airgap_manifest.txt
recording image names, filenames, and digests.
Run this mode on a host with internet access before transporting the
bundle to the target system.
.TP
.B \-\-load\-images \fIBUNDLEDIR\fR
Read
.I BUNDLEDIR/airgap_manifest.txt
and load each image tar into the container engine with
.B docker load
/
.BR "podman load" .
Idempotent: images that are already present are skipped without error.
Run this mode on the air-gapped host after the bundle has been transported.
.TP
.B \-\-start
Extract the Prometheus snapshot archive, start a Prometheus container,
then start a Grafana container pre-provisioned with the Prometheus
datasource.  Requires
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-f ,
and
.BR \-b .
Both images must already be loaded (see
.BR \-\-load\-images ).
Grafana startup is skipped with a warning when its image is absent;
Prometheus still starts.
.TP
.B \-\-stop
Stop and remove all Prometheus containers matching
.I gsc_prometheus_*
and all Grafana containers matching
.IR gsc_grafana_* .
Add
.B \-\-volume
to also delete the extracted data directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Prometheus options (required for \-\-start)
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-customer " \fINAME\fR"
Customer name.  Used to construct the container name and working
directory path under
.IR BASEDIR .
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-service\-request " \fISR\fR"
Service request or case number.  Combined with
.I CUSTOMER
to form unique container names and directory paths.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-snapshot\-file " \fIPATH\fR"
Path to the Prometheus snapshot archive
.RI ( psnap_*.tar.xz ).
Must be an existing file.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-base\-directory " \fIPATH\fR"
Base directory under which per-customer working directories are created.
Created automatically if it does not exist.
The Prometheus data path is
.IR BASEDIR/CUSTOMER/SR/prom/data ;
Grafana provisioning is at
.IR BASEDIR/CUSTOMER/SR/grafana/ .
.SS Grafana options (optional for \-\-start)
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-dashboard " \fIFILE\fR"
Dashboard JSON file or archive
.RI ( .zip ", " .tar.gz ", " .tar.xz ).
May be repeated to load multiple dashboards.
When omitted, Grafana starts with an empty dashboard folder.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-grafana\-port " \fIPORT\fR"
Port to expose Grafana on the host.
Default:
.I 3000
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-datasource " \fIIP:PORT\fR"
Prometheus datasource address.
Default: automatically derived from the port selected for Prometheus
.RI ( http://localhost:PORT ).
.TP
.B \-\-admin\-password " \fIPASSWORD\fR"
Grafana admin account password.
Default:
.I admin
.SS Image options
.TP
.B \-\-prom\-tag " \fITAG\fR"
Prometheus image tag to pull or load.
Default:
.I latest
.TP
.B \-\-grafana\-tag " \fITAG\fR"
Grafana image tag to pull or load.
Default:
.I latest
.TP
.B \-\-prom\-image " \fIIMAGE\fR"
Prometheus image name.
Default:
.I docker.io/prom/prometheus
.TP
.B \-\-grafana\-image " \fIIMAGE\fR"
Grafana image name.
Default:
.I docker.io/grafana/grafana
.SS Container options
.TP
.B \-\-engine " auto|docker|podman"
Force a specific container engine.
Default:
.B auto
(prefers podman if both are present, as detected by
.BR gsc_detect_engine ).
.TP
.B \-\-replace
Remove any existing container with the same name before starting.
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-container
Start containers without
.BR \-\-rm ;
they persist after they stop.
.TP
.B \-\-min\-port " \fIN\fR"
Lowest port number for Prometheus auto-selection.
Default:
.I 9090
.TP
.B \-\-max\-port " \fIN\fR"
Highest port number for Prometheus auto-selection.
Default:
.I 9599
.TP
.B \-\-exclude\-port " \fIN\fR"
Exclude an additional port from selection.  May be repeated.
.SS Cleanup options (for \-\-stop)
.TP
.B \-\-volume
Also delete data directories associated with stopped containers.
.TP
.B \-\-override=y
Skip confirmation prompts during cleanup.
.SS Other options
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable verbose diagnostic output.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI colour output.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the script version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
A required argument was missing, a file was not found, an image was not
loaded, no free port was available, or a container failed to start.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GSC_LIB_PATH
Override the path to
.I gsc_core.sh
(default: same directory as the script).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I BUNDLEDIR/airgap_manifest.txt
Written by
.B \-\-save\-images
and read by
.BR \-\-load\-images .
Records image references, tar filenames, and digests.
.TP
.I BUNDLEDIR/prometheus_<tag>.tar
Exported Prometheus image tar.
.TP
.I BUNDLEDIR/grafana_<tag>.tar
Exported Grafana image tar.
.TP
.I BASEDIR/CUSTOMER/SR/prom/data/
Extracted Prometheus snapshot data.  Mounted as
.I /prometheus
in the Prometheus container.
.TP
.I BASEDIR/CUSTOMER/SR/prom/prometheus.yml
Minimal Prometheus configuration written by
.BR \-\-start .
.TP
.I BASEDIR/CUSTOMER/SR/grafana/dashboards/
Dashboard JSON files copied/extracted from
.B \-D
arguments.
.TP
.I BASEDIR/CUSTOMER/SR/grafana/provisioning/
Grafana provisioning YAML for datasource and dashboard provider.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Export images on a connected host
.EX
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --save-images /mnt/usb/airgap_bundle
.EE
.SS Transport and load on the air-gapped host
.EX
# Copy /mnt/usb/airgap_bundle to the target, then:
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --load-images /mnt/usb/airgap_bundle
.EE
.SS Start both containers with dashboards
.EX
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --start \e
    -c ACME -s 05304447 \e
    -f /data/psnap_2026-Jul-04.tar.xz \e
    -b /opt/prom_instances \e
    -D /data/GrafanaDashboards_2.6.zip
.EE
.SS Start with a pinned image version
.EX
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --save-images /mnt/usb/bundle \e
    --prom-tag v2.51.0 --grafana-tag 10.4.3
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --load-images /mnt/usb/bundle \e
    --prom-tag v2.51.0 --grafana-tag 10.4.3
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --start \e
    -c ACME -s 05304447 \e
    -f psnap_2026-Jul-04.tar.xz -b /opt/prom \e
    --prom-tag v2.51.0 --grafana-tag 10.4.3
.EE
.SS Stop and remove all managed containers
.EX
sudo gsc_airgap.sh --stop --override=y
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gsc_prometheus (1),
.BR expand_hcpcs_support (1),
.BR runchk (1),
.BR hcpcs\-health\-check (7),
.BR docker (1),
.BR podman (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Hitachi Vantara GSC
