.TH RUNCHK 1 "2026-02-25" "Process Health v1.1.56" "HCP Cloud Scale Health Check"
.SH NAME
runchk.sh \- run the HCP Cloud Scale health check suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runchk.sh
.RB [ \-f
.IR healthcheck.conf ]
.RB [ \-\-full\-detail ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-metrics ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B runchk.sh
is the top-level orchestrator for the HCP Cloud Scale health check
workflow (Step 5).  It loads a
.I healthcheck.conf
configuration file, then runs every check and reporting script in a
fixed sequence.
.PP
Three data-intensive checks are disabled by default and must be
explicitly enabled with
.BR \-\-full\-detail :
.BR chk_disk_perf.sh ,
.BR chk_filesystem.sh ,
and
.BR chk_messages.sh .
.PP
The Prometheus query suite
.RB ( chk_metrics.sh )
can be skipped with
.B \-\-no\-metrics
when no Prometheus container is running or the port is unknown.
.PP
At the end of the run a summary of all
.BR WARNING ,
.BR ERROR ,
and
.B CRITICAL
lines found across every
.I health_report_*.log
file is printed together with a total issue count and elapsed
wall-clock time.
.PP
If
.I healthcheck.conf
is absent or cannot be read, Prometheus-dependent checks (metrics,
services) are skipped with a warning; all other checks continue
normally.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f " \fIFILE\fR"
Path to the Prometheus connection parameter file produced by
.BR expand_hcpcs_support.sh .
Defaults to
.I healthcheck.conf
in the current directory.  A bare positional argument is also
accepted for backward compatibility.
.TP
.B \-\-full\-detail
Enable the three checks that are skipped by default:
.RS
.TP
.B chk_disk_perf.sh
iostat device utilisation, latency, and queue depth per node.
.TP
.B chk_filesystem.sh
df filesystem usage, lsblk block device layout, LVM PV/VG health.
.TP
.B chk_messages.sh
journald error/warning analysis (last 30 days, deduplicated per day).
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-metrics
Skip
.BR chk_metrics.sh .
Use when no Prometheus container is available.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH HEALTHCHECK.CONF KEYS
The config file is sourced as a shell script.  The following variables
are consumed by
.B runchk.sh
and the scripts it calls:
.TP
.B _prom_server
Prometheus server hostname or IP address.
.TP
.B _prom_port
Prometheus server port.
.TP
.B _cs_version
HCP CS product version string (e.g.\&
.IR 2.6.0 ).
.TP
.B _version_num
Version string consumed by
.BR chk_services_sh.sh .
.TP
.B _prom_cmd_param_daily
Extra arguments forwarded verbatim to
.BR chk_metrics.sh .
.SH SCRIPTS EXECUTED (IN ORDER)
Scripts marked
.B [full\-detail]
run only when
.B \-\-full\-detail
is given.  The script marked
.B [metrics]
is skipped when
.B \-\-no\-metrics
is given.
.TP
.B selfcheck.sh
Verifies the integrity of the installed toolkit against
.IR SHA256SUMS .
.TP
.B print_cluster_identity_summary.sh
Prints cluster identity information extracted from the support bundle.
.TP
.B print_node_memory_summary.sh
Reports per-node memory layout (lsmem) and memory pressure (free).
.TP
.B print_node_os_summary.sh
Summarises the operating system release across all nodes.
.TP
.B chk_cluster.sh
Checks cluster-level health indicators.
.TP
.B prep_partitions_json.sh
Builds the partition event JSON consumed by later checks.
.TP
.B get_partition_tool_info.sh
Extracts information about the partition management tool version.
.TP
.B chk_partInfo.sh \-d .
Analyses partition events and growth trends.
.TP
.B parse_instances_info.sh
Parses service instance placement data.
.TP
.B prep_services_instances.sh
Prepares per-service instance configuration for subsequent checks.
.TP
.B chk_service_placement.sh
Validates service placement rules and counts.
.TP
.B chk_lshw.sh \-d .
Checks hardware configuration uniformity across nodes.
.TP
.B chk_chrony.sh \-d .
Checks NTP synchronisation status on each node.
.TP
.B chk_top.sh \-d .
Analyses CPU and load-average data from
.I top
batch output.
.TP
.B chk_docker.sh \-d .
Checks Docker engine version, containers, inotify limits, and ulimits.
.TP
.B chk_disk_perf.sh \-d .\ \fR[full\-detail]
Analyses iostat extended output; reports high utilisation, latency, and
queue depth per device and node.
.TP
.B chk_filesystem.sh \-d .\ \fR[full\-detail]
Checks filesystem usage (df), block device layout (lsblk), and LVM
PV/VG health.
.TP
.B chk_messages.sh \-d .\ \fR[full\-detail]
Parses journald output (last 30 days); writes error summaries to
.I health_report_messages.log
and warnings to
.IR messages_warn.log .
.TP
.B chk_alerts.sh
Checks pre-collected alert data from the support bundle.
.TP
.B chk_services_sh.sh \-r \fIVERSION\fR
Runs per-service health scripts for the detected HCP CS version.
.TP
.B chk_snodes.sh
Checks storage node status.
.TP
.B chk_services_memory.sh
Compares per-service RSS memory against bounds in
.IR memcheck.conf .
.TP
.B chk_metrics.sh\ \fR[metrics]
Queries Prometheus for each metric in
.I hcpcs_daily_alerts.json
and reports threshold violations.
.SH OUTPUT
Each check script writes findings to a dedicated
.I health_report_*.log
file.  After all scripts complete,
.B runchk.sh
aggregates every
.BR WARNING / ERROR / CRITICAL
line from those files and prints them with a total count.
.PP
.I messages_warn.log
(written by
.BR chk_messages.sh )
contains raw journal WARNING lines for manual review and is
.I not
included in the aggregation grep.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B runchk.sh
exits with the status of the last command executed.  To detect issues
examine the aggregated output or the individual
.I health_report_*.log
files.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GSC_LIB_PATH
Override the path to
.IR gsc_core.sh .
Default: same directory as the script.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I healthcheck.conf
Prometheus connection parameters written by
.B expand_hcpcs_support.sh
and updated in Step 4.
.TP
.I health_report_*.log
Per-check output files scanned for
.BR WARNING / ERROR / CRITICAL
at the end of the run.
.TP
.I messages_warn.log
Journal WARNING lines; manual review only.
.TP
.I memcheck.conf
Per-service memory bounds for
.BR chk_services_memory.sh .
.TP
.I hcpcs_daily_alerts.json
Prometheus metric definitions for
.BR chk_metrics.sh .
.TP
.I SHA256SUMS
Integrity manifest verified by
.BR selfcheck.sh .
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Standard run — core checks only
.EX
runchk.sh \-f ./healthcheck.conf
.EE
.SS Include disk, filesystem, and journal analysis
.EX
runchk.sh \-f ./healthcheck.conf \-\-full\-detail
.EE
.SS Core checks, skip Prometheus metrics
.EX
runchk.sh \-\-no\-metrics
.EE
.SS Full detail, no metrics (Prometheus not yet started)
.EX
runchk.sh \-f ./healthcheck.conf \-\-full\-detail \-\-no\-metrics
.EE
.SS Full five-step workflow
.EX
expand_hcpcs_support.sh \-r /ci/05304447
cd /ci/05304447/2025-11-26_20-48-48
sudo gsc_prometheus.sh \e
    \-s 05304447 \-c AcmeCorp \e
    \-f psnap_2026-Jul-04_12-53-12.tar.xz \e
    \-b /opt/prom_instances
# [ OK  ] Prometheus for AcmeCorp/05304447 started on port 9092.
expand_hcpcs_support.sh \-\-healthcheck\-only \-u \-p 9092
runchk.sh \-f ./healthcheck.conf \-\-full\-detail
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR expand_hcpcs_support (1),
.BR gsc_prometheus (1),
.BR hcpcs\-health\-check (7)
.SH AUTHORS
Hitachi Vantara GSC
